The news this year is absurd to say the least. While most of it has been somewhat soul crushing, other stories — like the reports that the Juggalos and Trump supporters are marching on the same day at the National Mall (maybe this isn't worth the space) — make you ask, what the hell is going on? 

The news cycle moves so fast, I often find myself seeing hot takes (lol like vox but Imma pretend like theyre not the hot take king) before I even know what the story is. Most people are more concerned with the media's narrative than what is actually happening. But other, like Vox, aren't afraid to first answer the basic questions and actually explain what the hell happened.

The commitment to inform your reader separates Vox from the pack. Beyond written explanatory journalism, the widespread use of visuals makes the news more accessible and enjoyable to consume.   

Visual journalists have a duty not to shy away from the hard-hitting stories since our medium is often more understandable than paragraph after paragraph. Creating clear explanatory journalism has never been more important than today with the amount of misinformation spreading and memory holes forming. Visuals have the power to make the complicated and abstract tangible. I would love to learn from all the talented journalists excelling at this at Vox.

While I would be humbled to work with you, this is not to say I lack the ability to make a meaningful contribution to your team today. I am a holistic visual reporter who has been awarded for telling stories with data, graphics, layout, pictures and words. My first job after graduation was reporting with the Reuters national desk on an investigative series where I was met short deadlines and learned how to better organize large projects. A journalist should be able to tell a story with whichever medium serves it best, so I've worked hard to be well rounded. I have extensive professional experience with web development and excelled in my programming courses that used d3, python and data visualization tools. I have the ability to design a story to its strengths, whether that is selecting the perfect photos, visualizing a complicated dataset or altering a website's UX to improve retention on a long story. 

Beyond telling stories, I have used programming to address institutional inefficiencies. As the Indiana Daily Student's digital director, other designers weren't producing digital content at my standards. Instead of micromanaging their project, I developed an educational template that allowed them to focus on designing and not debugging. More than fifteen designers have learned to code using this template and it has made its way into the curriculum of the most advanced visual storytelling classes at Indiana University's Media School. I've developed other software to accelerate my work, like a Python image sorter for the Society for News Design's annual book, which saved our team a week of busy work. If you let me into your system I will develop these sorts tools on the side to help everyone on the team (or: I'm committed to making tools like these because I believe cooperation produces better work than competition and if I know how to solve a problem I should share it with everyone). 

(Im at 500 words already so I should cut a fair amount. Maybe even the whole institutional inefficiencies graph. I also need to figure out a way to tie in the whole explanatory journalism/educational journalism in my closer. Any thoughts? I kinda cut out the whole accountability thing from my essay, which is the truth of why I wnat to do something, so I need some help BS)


